# Data Bootcamp ECON-UB 232 Final Project
# Nick Leung, Weiting Hong, William Jin, Brandon K Lee
ECON-UB 232 Data Bootcamp Fall 2018

## Introduction
Over the past half a decade, there has been a huge effort by companies of all industries to expand their grounds of diversity in an attempt to promote an open-minded and welcoming atmosphere for their employees. The idea is that diversity fosters creativity of different thoughts and ideas which can give rise to more efficient solutions outside the scope of traditional thinking. Initially, the diversity within business movement began in the 1960s as a part of a societal push for businesses to comply with the objectives of equal opportunity employment act [1]. Through the expansion of diversity, however, companies speculated the existence of benefits of greater innovation that could be derived from teams of a wider variety of backgrounds. This social justice model, originally created to stimulate equal employment opportunity for people of all different identities, quickly evolved into an assumed way for corporations to become more profitable, leading to the large-scale diversity recruiting programs we see today.

In various business models, it is projected that corporations lacking strong inclusion of diversity inherently are less productive, have a negative work culture, as well as a higher employee turnover rate. A Mckinsey report also claims that these not only directly affect the company through decreased efficiency and performance but also through the heightened costs. Due to the turnover rates, whether that be a loss of time, loss of resources, and loss of money spent on the ex-employees companies incur large costs associated with this problem [2]. In addition, organizations that plan to expand into global markets, believe that a diverse team will cause them to appear more externally inviting. Additionally internally, corporations claim further benefits of greater creativity, higher productivity, quicker problem solving and enhanced decision making.

In our freshman CLP class, many of these same claims were made about diversity’s huge benefits. However, they didn’t provide us with any statistical data on the matter which made us call into question the validity of the claims. We wanted to know if the huge advantages given to diversity candidates were actually helping a company’s profitability in the ways they said it is or if there was an alternative motive, such as better optics for the company. So, we decided to look at the industry where diversity is most highly regarded, tech [5].

This project focuses on diversity in the tech sector and its impact on companies profitability. We examined the data on the correlation of diversity on EBITDA to test these assertions made in our CLP class and in the business world.

Note: There are more factors besides the ability to yield a profit that determines a company’s success. However, financial data is the most abundant and quantitatively driven source of information that is available to us.
